# CLADES_amplicon-analysis
Custom python program for analyzing CLADES-related amplicons

Amplicon sequencing reads were first checked to remove ultra-short (<30bp) reads as well as reads with undetermined bases (N) or very poor (<4std) averaged sequencing scores. Paired reads were then merged through matching the terminal one fifth of the read1 or read2 sequence with the entire read2 or read1 sequence. Only successfully merged reads were subjected to the following analysis. First, merged reads were clustered based on complete nucleotide sequence to reveal discrete amplicon sequences and their read counts. Second, because the coexisting trigger and target transgenes can be equally amplified, we further retrieved those target-derived amplicon reads based on the target-specific spacer sequence. Third, we aligned each target-derived unique sequence to the target’s amplicon reference to recover a minimal number of non-overlapping perfectly matched segments (>4bp in length) that jointly cover as many common bases as possible. Gap-free sequences were deemed as wild-type reads. Fourth, we searched for gaps possibly resulting from fusion of direct repeats and consistently annotated such gaps with all the originally repeated bases lying on the 3’ side. Fifth, we clustered indels based on the indices of the involved bases. Finally, we chose those indels uncovering any of the 5 bases around the trigger-dependent Cas9 cut (2-6bp away from PAM) for quantification of trigger-induced SSA or other indel events across different samples. 
